I'm Buck Strickland,
and if you don't recognize me
- you're at the wrong event.
Now, the assistant managers
of the five Strickland propane
branches and I,
welcome you all
to our annual winter picnic.
We have gathered here
to celebrate propane...
God's gas.
And who could ignite
the celebration better
than our senior assistant
manager Mr. Hank Hill?
Hank, could you do the honors?
I'd be honored.
Well, hurry up, Hank.
Turn winter into summer.
Huh. Wow, Mr. Strickland,
it's like you always find
the exact right moment
to flip those burgers.
And I think you'll also find
that now is the exact right moment
for my total quality management proposal.
Oh, for god's sake.
Hey, Vickers, who do you like
for the Superbowl next year?
The dupey-loopies or the shimmy-shammies?
Okay, okay... very funny.
But I like the bills.
Ooh!
Look, mom... ash.
- There must be a volcano somewhere.
- Huh?
- It's... it's... it's snowing.
- Oh, no.
- This can't be.
Okay, I have been through
this before in Montana.
Now, nobody lick any flagpoles.
Snow!
Texans aren't prepared for
this kind of nightmare, sir.
We got to work fast.
I'll unlock the gas reserves
while you rally the troops.
All right, choke it down people.
This is a propane emergency,
no time for chewing!
If we don't get heat to the people
you can bet the electric company will.
Joe Jack, fire up the bobtail truck.
- Don't be a hero, Hank.
It's too late.
- Can I come, too, dad?
- You bet, son.
If you can catch a bobtail on the fly
you're welcome at Strickland propane.
Come on.
Slow down, Joe Jack.
Slow way down.
Slower.
Just stop the truck.
Whee!
- It's a winter wonderland!
I tell you what, man.
Go down to Antarctica.
Ain't going to get that damn thing to work
with a big old bottom like he got.
Whee!
- No, ma'am, propane will not freeze.
- Good news, Buck.
We can get propane to the nursing homes
by diverting it away from
the museum of modern art.
If anyone asks, it was a tough choice.
Uh-huh. That's why your dad's
one of the greats.
Just watch and learn, son.
Maybe someday,
you'll be sitting in that seat.
Then where would he sit?
The way things are going,
he'll be in the boss's chair.
Oh, oh, no, sir.
I'll just keep the chair I have
and wheel it over to your desk
when the time comes.
Whew! I'm beat.
Think I'm going to call it a day.
Just got to finish up my paperwork.
There. Finished.
Hey, dad, how come
I never got a Strickland calendar?
Uh, that's not for you, Bobby.
You're not old enough.
- Well, hello, Miss. November.
You be careful. That's flammable.
Uh, Bobby, why don't you go on
outside and make snow angels?
Okay.
Whoo! Hey... speaking of angels.
Look at the... Look at the wings
on this piece of chicken,
would you? Would you?
- Whoo-hoo-hoo!
- Well, she certainly is attractive, sir.
But I'm not sure that's an appropriate way
to be talking about our cleaning lady.
Merry Christmas.
I see your stockings
are sure hung with care.
Ho-ho-ho-ho!
Ooh! Oh!
Uh, uh, Buck?
Got-dang it! I'm having an infarction.
- What?
- Geez!
No! Oh, my god.
I'll call an ambulance!
Must get to the hospital.
Hang on, Buck.
We've still got a lot of propane
to sell together.
Hello. Emergency room, please.
Dang it! Oh!
Mr. Strickland, you got
to use both arms, like me.
- What do you think?
If I show up at the hospital
with a tie on, it's kind of ghoulish.
It's like saying, why aren't you dead yet?
On the other hand, we are in a crisis
and I will have to give orders.
See? You are already thinking
like a man in charge.
Ooh, this is so exciting.
Save the tie for the funeral.
All right...
Everybody listen up.
Strickland is a family.
And I'm like the daddy,
and the daddy ain't feeling so good.
So it's up to you kids to become leaders.
Make sure daddy's business
don't get run into the ground.
You work for me?
Yes, sir, Mr. Strickland.
I'm your daddy.
Now, all five of you kids
are going to have to pitch in.
Take, uh, take on
some added responsibility.
Could you ladies step outside
for a minute, please?
I-I got a shot coming,
and it's just rude, you know,
to make two such pretty gals
stare at my bare backside.
All right, now that the skirts
are out in the hallway,
we can get down to business.
One of you has to run the company.
Hank, you're my right-hand man.
I need you to feed my hounds.
- Uh...
- Promise me you'll take care
of my hounds, Hank.
Uh, I'll take care of them. Sure.
Tell me that you will love them, Hank.
I'll, l... Uh, I'll... Uh...
All right, I'll do so.
Vickers, you run the company,
whole shebang.
Let's see what that fancy business
degree of yours is worth.
You betcha.
You're putting him in charge?
M-Mr. Strickland, I've been with
the company 15 years.
Hank, I let you light the grill.
Right now, my hounds are starving.
I bought enough canned food
to last us through this storm.
And the civil unrest
that will inevitably follow.
Hope you like water chestnuts.
Uh, hey, neighbor.
I brought you something.
Water chestnuts.
Oh. Thank you.
As a matter of fact, there is
something you can give me in return.
I only have a three-week
supply of propane.
But you'll get Hank to hook me up.
You owe me.
Well, I'm sorry, Dale.
Hank may be in charge now,
but you are not going to get
any special treatment.
Hank's priorities are propane first,
family second, friends third,
in that order.
Fine. I'll just have to barter for it.
Whee!
Bill!
You like pumpkin-pie filling?
Hank!
What's going on, Hank?
Strickland picked Lloyd Vickers
as Interim Manager.
What? Llo... Wha...
That suck up's not even fit
to feed Strickland's dogs.
Uh... actually...
that's my department now.
Oh. Well, I'm sure it has
its own set of challenges.
Does anyone know what this means?
You're going to be doing drug testing?
You're thinking of PCP
and, yes, we are.
PDP, peak demand pricing.
This weather has created
a propane shortage.
Therefore, market forces dictate
that we raise our prices.
In business school,
that's called supply and demand.
HANk: Yeah, well, In the real world,
that's called sticking it to people
when they need us most.
Ah. Hank, can we dialogue for a second?
I know this must be difficult for you.
So I'm working out some flex time so you
can feed Mr. Strickland's dogs.
And clean their mess.
Look, let me tell you something.
You can only learn from experience.
You got to treat people with respect.
You know who taught me that?
Buck Strickland.
He has the nerve to give me flex time.
That's what they give pregnant women
and other disabled.
I don't know, Hank. Sounds like he's
just trying to empower you.
See, that's the fifth building block
of total quality management.
- Mm-hmm.
- Mmm. Yep.
Well, you won't be so quick
to defend this guy when he raises
propane prices, ten cents a gallon.
- Ten cents? What are you talking about?
- What about my dang old hot tub, man?
That's insane.
Well, I'll tell you what.
When Strickland gets back
from the hospital
and finds out about this.
He's going to have another heart attack.
Someone's got to teach
that Vickers a lesson.
If you want, I can show you
how to make a bomb
out of a roll of toilet paper
and a stick of dynamite.
Why didn't Buck Strickland
pick you to be boss, dad?
Well, uh... sometimes in life, uh...
Uh, curveball and such, uh...
Uh...
Ah, that's your ride, boy.
Hey, Joe Jack, can you give
my boy a lift home?
Sorry, Hank.
Damn Vickers put tattlers
in the trucks now.
What? He can't do that.
What's a tattler?
It's a meter that tells a boss
when the driver stops and for how long.
It's designed to prevent goof-offs,
lunch breaks, unscheduled stops.
All the things the driver's union
fought so hard for.
Meow. Look at me. I'm a kitty.
- Meow. Meow, meow.
Look, doggies. Look at me, I'm a kitty.
- Meow!
Good girl. Look at me.
I've got whiskers. I'm a kitty cat.
Run, honey! They've seen you!
This is ridiculous.
There's a snow crisis going on.
And I'm sitting here,
scrubbing off dog slobber.
Do not blame yourself.
Strickland is the fool
who passed you over.
Well, no one bats a thousand.
Strickland's a good man.
He's the only other guy at the firm
who has the same passion
for propane that I do.
Oh... my... Lord.
What?
The stove!
It's not propane! It's electric.
- No!
- Yes!
Well, it better be self-cleaning
because I think I'm going to vomit.
How could you, sir?
How could you buy an electric stove
after everything propane has given you?
Dang it, Hank,
we're both men of the world.
I got a whole bunch
of electric appliances.
They came with the house.
But, Mr. Strickland, you've always said
that propane is God's gas.
It's a higher calling.
Aw, heck, Hank, it's just a business.
It's about making as much money
as you can, while you can.
That's why I let Vickers
put in them tattlers.
What? You knew about that?
Oh, sure. I've been using tattlers
off and on for years.
Back in the old days, we used midgets.
Stuck them behind the seats
with a bucket of ice to keep them cool.
That's till Osha came in.
And put them poor little people
on the street.
That's what they like to be
called, Hank. Little people.
The 15 years I've worked with you
have been the happiest years of my life.
Now I find out it was all a lie.
I never thought I would say this but...
Mr. Strickland, I'm not
coming in to work tomorrow.
You mean you quit or are you taking
a personal day?
You heard me!
I just need a couple days
up at the lake to figure out
what I was meant to do in this life.
I've been taking a good hard look
at the propane business
and it's sort of like seeing a woman
with her makeup off.
Sharona Johnson
came to beauty school once,
with her makeup off, and nobody told her.
Mm... that was mean.
Dad.
I got the stove.
Where's the propane thingy
that goes into it?
Put it back, son.
There's no room for propane on this trip.
Now listen to me, Joe Jack.
We're just two steps from win-win.
Step one, you put the tattler boxes
back in the trucks.
Step two, you keep your jobs.
Oh, I got a third step for you, honey.
- We quit.
- Yeah.
Fine! Quit!
I've got a whole alumni newsletter
full of friends I can call on.
They'll drive those trucks
just for the life experience.
And I guess your friends
are Haz-mat certified, too.
Haz-mat?
MR. STRICKLAND (yelling):
Hazardous materials, Vickers!
You moron!
You need a special license
to drive a propane truck!
It's all right, sir, I can get to yes.
I'll hire a new batch
of drivers right away.
You listen to me, got-dang it.
It's the got-dang height of the season.
There's no drivers from here
to got-dang city!
You're fired!
Here you go, sister.
I told you we should have
stopped at the Mega Lo Mart.
They don't even have a separate
candy department here.
Bobby Hill, we are at a remote
cabin out in the wilderness.
We will make our own candy.
Hank, what are you doing?
Put it down.
Now someone might see you.
Come on, Peggy.
Haven't you ever wondered what it's like,
to barbecue with charcoal?
You mean without propane?
But, I don't think that.
Well... well, yeah.
I guess I am curious.
This is the Hill residence.
Please leave a message at the beep.
MR. STRICKLAND (on phone): Hank,
it's your old buddy Buck Strickland.
That Vickers mucked things up worse
than Jack Kennedy at piggy bay,
so I got no drivers!
I got no right-hand man!
I need you, ol' top!
I need you bad.
Comes to 21.24.
Aw, darn. I only got a twenty.
I'll just run out to the car.
Aw, twenty's close enough.
We don't care about a buck here or there.
People before pennies, I always say.
Hmm. Well, thank you, friend.
You're good people.
We don't care about a buck here or there.
Now I know why they call you pa.
'Cause you're pa-thetic.
And I know why they call you ma.
'Cause you're always riding ma ass!
Hank, it's Rudy over
at Goobersmooches restaurant.
I got no propane for my stoves.
I'm looking at 20 pounds
of rotten rib eye.
I saved your life, dad.
Huh?
I saved your life.
I was going to push you in
and then I saved your life.
You were going to push me in?
It was a joke.
Ah!
I said do not disturb him.
- Ohhh.
We don't care about
a buck here or there.
people before pennies.
People...
Of course, people.
Peggy! Peggy!
What? What is it?
Pack up the car! I figured it all out!
It's not about tattler boxes
or who's in charge.
It's about service with a smile
and making people happy.
Oh, I knew it!
You are going back to Strickland.
Hell, no.
I'm going to open up a general store.
Escucha me?
You see, everything I thought I'd
find in propane it isn't there.
It's in the general store.
Where they put people before pennies.
A fella's got no money,
he can't pay his bill?
Well, that's good enough for us.
And then that fella
will tell another fella
and before you know it,
I'll have customers
lined up around the block.
- Bobby? Bobby, get out here, boy!
I'm leaving the propane business
and opening up a general store.
Okay.
I can't do it alone, Peggy.
General stores are Ma and Pa.
If you're not there
people are going to make assumptions like,
did Pa kill Ma?
They aren't going to want to buy
batteries from me
if they think you're back in the freezer
hanging from a meat hook. Am I wrong?
I don't know. I don't know.
People do need batteries.
But this is just all happening so fast.
Will you think about it... Ma?
We could have a section
for children's books.
And we wouldn't even have to talk to them
as long as the kids brought them back.
That's a great idea, Peggy.
Kids are people.
You see, you've come up
with a whole new customer base
for our store.
Ohh, well...
Oh, what the H?
You know what? I'll do it.
I am going to go type
my letter of resignation,
to the Arlen school board right now.
I guess I'd better write my letter, too.
It is with regret...
Hank,
it's Velma Throckmorton.
My hands froze to my walker
and I had to thaw them in the microwave.
I need my propane.
It is with... deep regret...
Uh, Mr. Hill,
it's Hugh Jimmerson.
My heat's gone out.
I've tried wearing turtlenecks,
but they make me look French.
Where are your trucks?
It is with very deep regret...
Mr. Hill, it's Leta Anderson.
All three kids got the group
and I'm clear out of propane.
It's cold. It's real cold.
All finished, Hank!
Okay. Here it is.
One resignation letter,
signed and self-notarized.
Hank?
Peggy, went back to work.
Love, Hank Hill
Oh, is that you, Hank?
You come back to dance on my grave?
No, sir. I don't feel much like dancing.
There's a town in crisis out there
and they need propane.
It ain't going to happen, Hank.
Vickers screwed everything up.
All our drivers quit.
A real propane man
doesn't know the word quit.
Well, I don't know how they said it,
but them drivers
ain't working here no more!
And you and me can't
drive them propane trucks
because we don't have Haz-mat licenses.
It's all over.
No, it ain't.
You don't need any Haz-mat license
to drive a tow truck.
Hooray! Hooray!
Yeah!
Saved your life, dad.
Saved my life.
Now I get it.
Aaah.
Look at me, I'm a kitty. Reow!